There lived a certain man in Russia long ago
He was big and strong, in his eyes a flaming glow
Most people looked at him with terror and with fear
But to Moscow chicks he was such a lovely dear
He could preach the bible like a preacher
Full of ecstasy and fire
But he also was the kind of teacher
Women would desire

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
There was a cat that really was gone
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
It was a shame how he carried on

He ruled the Russian land and never mind the czar
But the cassock he danced really wunderbar
In all affairs of state he was the man to please
But he was real great when he had a girl to squeeze
For the queen he was no wheeler dealer
Though she'd heard the things he'd done
She believed he was a holy healer
Who would heal her son

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
There was a cat that really was gone
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
It was a shame how he carried on

But when his drinking and lusting and his hunger
For power became known to more and more people
The demands to do something about this outrageous
Man became louder and louder

This man's just got to go, declared his enemies
But the ladies begged, don't you try to do it, please
No doubt this Rasputin had lots of hidden charms
Though he was a brute they just fell into his arms
Then one night some men of higher standing
Set a trap, they're not to blame
Come to visit us they kept demanding
And he really came

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
They put some poison into his wine
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
He drank it all and said, I feel fine

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
They didn't quit, they wanted his head
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
And so they shot him 'til he was dead

Oh, those Russians

my father had to leave the little border city he had learned to love, moving down the Inn to take 
a new position in Passau, that is, in Germany proper.
In those days constant moving was the lot of an Austrian customs official. A short time later, my 
father was sent to Linz, and there he was finally pensioned. Yet, indeed, this was not to mean 
"res"' for the old gentleman. In his younger days, as the son of a poor cottager, he couldn't bear 
to stay at home. Before he was even thirteen, the little boy laced his tiny knapsack and ran away 
from his home in the Waldviertel. Despite the at tempts of 'experienced' villagers to dissuade 
him, he made his way to Vienna, there to learn a trade. This was in the fifties of the past century. 
A desperate decision, to take to the road with only three gulden for travel money, and plunge 
into the unknown. By the time the thirteen-year-old grew to be seventeen, he had passed his 
apprentice's examination, but he was not yet content. On the contrary. The long period of 
hardship, endless misery, and suffering he had gone through strengthened his determination to 
give up his trade and become ' something better. Formerly the poor boy had regarded the priest 
as the embodiment of all humanly attainable heights; now in the big city, which had so greatly 
widened his perspective, it was the rank of civil servant. With all the tenacity of a young man 
whom suffering and care had made 'old' while still half a child, the seventeen-year-old clung to 
his new decision-he did enter the civil service. And after nearly twenty-three years, I believe, he 
reached his goal. Thus he seemed to have fulfilled a vow which he had made as a poor boy: that 
he would not return to his beloved native village until he had made something of himself.
His goal was achieved; but no one in the village could remember the little boy of former days, 
and to him the village had grown strange.
When finally, at the age of fifty-six, he went into retirement, he could not bear to spend a single 
day of his leisure in idleness. Near the Upper Austrian market village of Lambach he bought a 
farm, which he worked himself, and thus, in the circuit of a long and industrious life, returned to 
the origins of his forefathers.
It was at this time that the first ideals took shape in my breast. All my playing about in the open, 
the long walk to school, and particularly my association with extremely 'husky' boys, which 
sometimes caused my mother bitter anguish, made me the very opposite of a stay-at-home. And 
though at that time I scarcely had any serious ideas as to the profession I should one day pursue, 
my sympathies were in any case not in the direction of my father's career. I believe that even 
then my oratorical talent was being developed in the form of more or less violent arguments 
with my schoolmates. I had become a little ringleader; at school I learned easily and at that time 
very well, but was otherwise rather hard to handle. Since in my free time I received singing 
lessons in the cloister at Lambach, I had excellent opportunity to intoxicate myself with the 
solemn splendor of the brilliant church festivals. As was only natural the abbot seemed to me, as 
the village priest had once seemed to my father, the highest and most desirable ideal. For a time, 
at least, this was the case. But since my father, for understandable reasons, proved unable to 
appreciate the oratorical talents of his pugnacious boy, or to draw from them any favorable 
conclusions regarding the future of his offspring, he could, it goes without saying, achieve no 
understanding for such youthful ideas. With concern he observed this conflict of nature.
As it happened, my temporary aspiration for this profession was in any case soon to vanish, 
making place for hopes more stated to my temperament. Rummaging through my father's 
library, I had come across various books of a military nature among them a popular edition of 
the Franco-German War of 1870-7I It consisted of two issues of an illustrated periodical from 
those years, which now became my favorite reading matter It was not long before the great 
heroic struggle had become my greatest inner experience. From then on I became more and 
more enthusiastic about everything that was in any way connected with war or, for that matter, 
with soldiering.
But in another respect as well, this was to assume importance for me. For the first time, though 
as yet in a confused form, the question was forced upon my consciousness: Was there a 
difference -and if so what difference-between the Germans who fought these battles and other 
Germans? Why hadn't Austria taken part in this war; why hadn't my father and all the others 
fought?
Are we not the same as all other Germans?
Do we not all belong together? This problem began to gnaw at my little brain for the first time. I 
asked cautious questions and with secret envy received the answer that not every German was 
fortunate enough to belong to Bismarck's Reich..
This was more than I could understand.
It was decided that I should go to high school.
From my whole nature, and to an even greater degree from my temperament, my father believed 
he could draw the inference that the humanistic Gymnasium would represent a conflict with my 
talents. A Realschol seemed to him more suitable. In this opinion he was especially strengthened 
by my obvious aptitude for drawing; a subject which in his opinion was neglected in the 
Austrian Gymnasiums. Another factor may have been his own laborious career which made 
humanistic study seem impractical in his eyes, and therefore less desirable. It was hus basic 
opinion and intention that, like himself, his son would and must become a civil servant. It was 
only natural that the hardships of his youth should enhance his subsequent achievement in his 
eyes, particularly since it resulted exclusively from his own energy and iron diligence. It was the 
pride of the self-made man which made him want his son to rise to the same position in life, orJ 
of course, even higher if possible, especially since, by his own industrious life, he thought he 
would be able to facilitate his child's development so greatly.
It was simply inconceivable to him that I might reject what had become the content of his whole 
life. Consequently, my father s decision was simple, definite, and clear; in his own eyes I mean, 
of course. Finally, a whole lifetime spent in the bitter struggle for existence had given him a 
domineering nature, and it would have seemed intolerable to him to leave the final decision in 
such matters to an inexperienced boy, having as yet no Sense of responsibility. Moreover, this 
would have seemed a sinful and reprehensible weakness in the exercise of his proper parental 
authority and responsibility for the future life of his child, and as such, absolutely incompatible 
with his concept of duty.
And yet things were to turn out differently.
Then barely eleven years old, I was forced into opposition for the first time in my life. Hard and 
determined as my father might be in putting through plans and purposes once conceived his son 
was just as persistent and recalcitrant in rejecting an idea which appealed to him not at all, or in 
any case very little.
I did not want to become a civil servant.
Neither persuasion nor 'serious' arguments made any impression on my resistance. I did not 
want to be a civil servant no, and again no. All attempts on my father's part to inspire me with 
love or pleasure in this profession by stories from his own life accomplished the exact opposite. 
I yawned and grew sick to my stomach at the thought of sitting in an office, deprived of my 
liberty; ceasing to be master of my own time and being compelled to force the content of a 
whole life into blanks that had to be filled out.
And what thoughts could this prospect arouse in a boy who in reality was really anything but 
'good' in the usual sense of the word?
School work was ridiculously easy, leaving me so much free time that the sun saw more of me 
than my room. When today my political opponents direct their loving attention to the 
examination of my life, following it back to those childhood days and discover at last to their 
relief what intolerable pranks this "Hitler" played even in his youth, I thank Heaven that a 
portion of the memories of those happy days still remains with me. Woods and meadows were 
then the battlefields on which the 'conflicts' which exist everywhere in life were decided.
In this respect my attendance at the Realschule, which now commenced, made little difference.
But now, to be sure, there was a new conflict to be fought out.
As long as my fathers intention of making me a civil servant encountered only my theoretical 
distaste for the profession, the conflict was bearable. Thus far, I had to some extent been able to 
keep my private opinions to myself; I did not always have to contradict him immediately. My 
own firm determination never to become a civil servant sufficed to give me complete inner 
peace. And this decision in me was immutable. The problem became more difficult when I 
developed a plan of my own in opposition to my father's. And this occurred at the early age of 
twelve. How it happened, I myself do not know, but one day it became clear to me that I would 
become a painter, an artist. There was no doubt as to my talent for drawing; it had been one of 
my father's reasons for sending me to the Realschule, but never in all the world would it have 
occurred to him to give me professional training in this direction. On the contrary. When for the 
first time, after once again rejecting my father's favorite notion, I was asked what I myself 
wanted to be, and I rather abruptly blurted out the decision I had meanwhile made, my father for 
the moment was struck speechless.
' Painter? Artist? '
He doubted my sanity, or perhaps he thought he had heard wrong or misunderstood me. But 
when he was clear on the subject, and particularly after he felt-the seriousness of my intention, 
he opposed it with all the determination of his nature. His decision was extremely simple, for 
any consideration of w at abilities I might really have was simply out of the question.
'Artist, no, never as long as I live!' But since his son, among various other qualities, had 
apparently inherited his father' s stubbornness, the same answer came back at him. Except, of 
course, that it was in the opposite sense.
And thus the situation remained on both sides. My father did not depart from his 'Never!' And I 
intensified my 'Oh, yes!'
The consequences, indeed, were none too pleasant. The old man grew embittered, and, much as 
I loved him, so did I. Ally father forbade me to nourish the slightest hope of ever being allowed 
to study art. I went one step further and declared that if that was the case I would stop studying 
altogether. As a result of such 'pronouncements,' of course, I drew the short end; the old man 
began the relentless enforcement of his authority. In the future, therefore, I was silent, but 
transformed my threat into reality. I thought that once my father saw how little progress I was 
making at the Realschule, he would let me devote myself to my dream, whether he liked it or 
not.
I do not know whether this calculation was correct. For the moment only one thing was certain: 
my obvious lack of success at school. What gave me pleasure I learned, especially everything 
which, in my opinion, I should later need as a painter. What seemed to me unimportant in this 
respect or was otherwise unattractive to me, I sabotaged completely. My report cards at this 
time, depending on the subject and my estimation of it, showed nothing but extremes. Side by 
side with 'laudable' and 'excellent,' stood 'adequate' or even 'inadequate.' By far my best 
accomplishments were in geography and even more so in history. These were my favorite 
subjects, in which I led the; class.
If now, after so many years, I examine the results of this period, I regard two outstanding facts 
as particularly significant:
First: I became a nationalist
Second: I learned to understand and grasp the meaning of history.
Old Austria was a 'state of nationalities.'
By and large, a subject of the German Reich, at that time at least, was absolutely unable to grasp 
the significance of this fact for the life of the individual in such a state. After the great victorious 
campaign of the heroic armies in the Franco-German War, people had gradually lost interest in 
the Germans living abroad; some could not, while others were unable to appreciate their 
importances Especially with regard to the GermanAustrians, the degenerate dynasty was only 
too frequently confused with the people, which at the core was robust and healthy.
What they failed to appreciate was that, unless the German in Austria had really been of the best 
blood, he would never have had the power to set his stamp on a nation of fifty-two million souls 
to such a degree that, even in Germany, the erroneous opinion could arise that Austria was a 
German state. This was an absurdity fraught with the direst consequences, and yet a glowing 
testimonial to the ten million Germans in the Ostmark. Only a handful of Germans in the Reich 
had the slightest conception of the eternal and merciless struggle for the German language, 
German schools, and a German way of life. Only today, when the same deplorable misery is 
forced on many millions of Germans from the Reich, who under foreign rule dream of their 
common fatherland and strive, amid their longing, at least to preserve their holy right to their 
mother tongue, do wider circles understand what it means to be forced to fight for one's 
nationality. Today perhaps some can appreciate the greatness of the Germans in the Reich's old 
Ostmark, who, with no one but themselves to depend on, for centuries protected the Reich 
against incursions from the East, and finally carried on an exhausting guerrilla warfare to 
maintain the German language frontier, at a time when the Reich was highly interested in 
colonies, but not in its own flesh and blood at its very doorstep.
As everywhere and always, in every struggle, there were, in this fight for the language in old 
Austria, three strata:
The fighters, the lukewarm and the traitors.
This sifting process began at school. For the remarkable fact about the language struggle is that 
its waves strike hardest perhaps in the school, since it is the seed-bed of the coming generation. 
It is a struggle for the soul of the child, and to the child its first appeal is addressed:
'German boy, do not forget you are a German,' and, 'Little girl, remember that you are to become 
a German mother.'
Anyone who knows the soul of youth will be able to understand that it is they who lend ear most 
joyfully to such a battle-cry. They carry on this struggle in hundreds of forms, in their own way 
and with their own weapons. They refuse to sing unGerman songs. The more anyone tries to 
alienate them from German heroic grandeur, the wilder becomes their enthusiasm: they go 
hungry to save pennies for the grown-ups' battle fund their ears are amazingly sensitive to un-
German teachers, and at the same time they are incredibly resistant; they wear the forbidden 
insignia of their own nationality and are happy to be punished or even beaten for it. Thus, on a 
small scale they are a faithful reflection of the adults, except that often their convictions are 
better and more honest.
I, too, while still comparatively young, had an opportunity to take part in the struggle of 
nationalities in old Austria. Collections were taken for the Sudmark I and the school association; 
we emphasized our convictions by wearing corn-flowers and red lack, and gold colors; 'Heil ' 
was our greeting, and instead of the imperial anthem we sang 'Deutschland uber Alles,' despite 
warnings and punishments. In this way the child received political training in a period when as a 
rule the subject of a so-called national state knew little more of his nationality than its language. 
It goes without saying that even then I was not among the lukewarm. In a short time I had 
become a fanatical 'German Nationalist,' though the term was not identical with our present 
party concept.
This development in me made rapid progress; by the time I was fifteen I understood the 
difference between dynastic ' patriotism' and folkish "nationalism'; and even then I was 
interested only in the latter.
For anyone who has never taken the trouble to study the inner conditions of the Habsburg 
monarchy, such a process may not be entirely understandable. In this country the instruction in 
world history had to provide the germ for this development, since to all intents and purposes 
there is no such thing as a specifically Austrian history. The destiny of this state is so much 
bound up with the life and development of all the Germans that a separation of history into 
German and Austrian does not seem conceivable. Indeed, when at length Germany began to 
divide into two spheres of power, this division itself became German history.
The insignia of former imperial glory, preserved in Vienna, still seem to cast a magic spell; they 
stand as a pledge that these twofold destinies are eternally one.
The elemental cry of the German-Austrian people for union with the German mother country, 
that arose in the days when the Habsburg state was collapsing, was the result of a longing that 
slumbered in the heart of the entire people-a longing to return to the never-forgotten ancestral 
home. But this would be in explicable if the historical education of the individual 
GermanAustrian had not given rise to so general a longing. In it lies a well which never grows 
dry; which, especially in times of forgetfulness, transcends all momentary prosperity and by 
constant reminders of the past whispers softly of a new future
Instruction in world history in the so-called high schools is even today in a very sorry condition. 
Few teachers understand that the aim of studying history can never be to learn historical dates 
and events by heart and recite them by rote; that what matters is not whether the child knows 
exactly when this or that battle was fought, when a general was born, or even when a monarch 
(usually a very insignificant one) came into the crown of his forefathers. No, by the living God, 
this is very unimportant.
To 'learn' history means to seek and find the forces which are the causes leading to those effects 
which we subsequently perceive as historical events.
The art of reading as of learning is this: to retain the essential to forget the non-essential.
Perhaps it affected my whole later life that good fortune sent me a history teacher who was one 
of the few to observe this principle in teaching and examining. Dr. Leopold Potsch, my 
professor at the Realschule in Linz, embodied this requirement to an ideal degree. This old 
gentleman's manner was as kind as it was determined, his dazzling eloquence not only held us 
spellbound but actually carried us away. Even today I think back with gentle emotion on this 
gray-haired man who, by the fire of his narratives, sometimes made us forget the present; who, 
as if by enchantment, carried us into past times and, out of the millennial veils of mist, molded 
dry historical memories into living reality. On such occasions we sat there, often aflame with 
enthusiasm, and sometimes even moved to tears.
What made our good fortune all the greater was that this teacher knew how to illuminate the past 
by examples from the present, and how from the past to draw inferences for the present. As a 
result he had more understanding than anyone else for all the daily problems which then held us 
breathless. He used our budding nationalistic fanaticism as a means of educating use frequently 
appealing to our sense of national honor. By this alone he was able to discipline us little ruffians 
more easily than would have been possible by any other means.
This teacher made history my favorite subject.
And indeed, though he had no such intention, it was then that I became a little revolutionary.
For who could have studied German history under such a teacher without becoming an enemy of 
the state which, through its ruling house, exerted so disastrous an influence on the destinies of 
the nation?
And who could retain his loyalty to a dynasty which in past and present betrayed the needs of 
the German people again and again for shameless private advantage?
Did we not know, even as little boys, that this Austrian state had and could have no love for us 
Germans?
Our historical knowledge of the works of the House of Habsburg was reinforced by our daily 
experience. In the north and south the poison of foreign nations gnawed at the body of our 
nationality, and even Vienna was visibly becoming more and more of an un-German city. The 
Royal House Czechized wherever possible, and it was the hand of the goddess of eternal justice 
and inexorable retribution which caused Archduke Francis Ferdinand, the most mortal enemy of 
Austrian-Germanism, to fall by the bullets which he himself had helped to mold. For had he not 
been the patron of Austria's Slavization from above !
Immense were the burdens which the German people were expected to bear, inconceivable their 
sacrifices in taxes and blood, and yet anyone who was not totally blind was bound to recognize 
that all this would be in vain. What pained us most was the fact that this entire system was 
morally whitewashed by the alliance with Germany, with the result that the slow extermination 
of Germanism in the old monarchy was in a certain sense sanctioned by Germany itself. The 
Habsburg hypocrisy, which enabled the Austrian rulers to create the outward appearance that 
Austria was a German state, raised the hatred toward this house to flaming indignation and at the 
same time -contempt.
Only in the Reich itself, the men who even then were called to power saw nothing of all this. As 
though stricken with blindness, they lived by the side of a corpse, and in the symptoms of rotten-
ness saw only the signs of 'new' life.
The unholy alliance of the young Reich and the Austrian sham state contained the germ of the 
subsequent World War and of the collapse as well.
In the course of this book I shall have occasion to take up this problem at length. Here it suffices 
to state that even in my earliest youth I came to the basic insight which never left me, but Only 
became more profound:
That Germanism could be safeguarded only by the destruction of Austria, and, furthermore, that 
national sentiment is in no sense Identical with dynastic patriotism; that above all the House of 
Habsburg was destined to be the misfortune of the German nation.
Even then I had drawn the consequences from this realization ardent love for my German-
Austrian homeland state
There lived a certain man in Russia long ago
He was big and strong, in his eyes a flaming glow
Most people looked at him with terror and with fear
But to Moscow chicks he was such a lovely dear
He could preach the bible like a preacher
Full of ecstasy and fire
But he also was the kind of teacher
Women would desire

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
There was a cat that really was gone
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
It was a shame how he carried on

He ruled the Russian land and never mind the czar
But the cassock he danced really wunderbar
In all affairs of state he was the man to please
But he was real great when he had a girl to squeeze
For the queen he was no wheeler dealer
Though she'd heard the things he'd done
She believed he was a holy healer
Who would heal her son

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
There was a cat that really was gone
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
It was a shame how he carried on

But when his drinking and lusting and his hunger
For power became known to more and more people
The demands to do something about this outrageous
Man became louder and louder

This man's just got to go, declared his enemies
But the ladies begged, don't you try to do it, please
No doubt this Rasputin had lots of hidden charms
Though he was a brute they just fell into his arms
Then one night some men of higher standing
Set a trap, they're not to blame
Come to visit us they kept demanding
And he really came

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
They put some poison into his wine
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
He drank it all and said, I feel fine

Ra ra Rasputin
Lover of the Russian queen
They didn't quit, they wanted his head
Ra ra Rasputin
Russia's greatest love machine
And so they shot him 'til he was dead

Oh, those Russians
The habit of historical thinking which I thus learned in school has never left me in the 
intervening years. To an ever-increasing extent world history became for me an inexhaustible 
source of understanding for the historical events of the present, in other words, for politics. I do 
not want to 'learn' it, I want it to in instruct me.
Thus, at an early age, I had become a political ' revolutionary,' and I became an artistic 
revolutionary at an equally early age.
The provincial capital of Upper Austria had at that time a theater which was, relatively speaking, 
not bad. Pretty much of everything was produced. At the age of twelve I saw Wilhelm Tell for 
the first time, and a few months later my first opera, Lohengrin. I was captivated at once. My 
youthful enthusiasm for the master of Bayreuth knew no bounds. Again and again I was drawn 
to his works, and it still seems to me especially fortunate that the modest provincial performance 
left me open to an intensified experience later on.
All this, particularly after I had outgrown my adolescence (which in my case was an especially 
painful process), reinforced my profound distaste for the profession which my father had chosen 
for me. My conviction grew stronger and stronger that I would never be happy as a civil servant. 
The fact that by this time my gift for drawing had been recognized at the Realschule made my 
determination all the firmer.
Neither pleas nor threats could change it one bit.
I wanted to become a painter and no power in the world could make me a civil servant.
Yet, strange as it may seem, with the passing years I became more and more interested in 
architecture.
At that time I regarded this as a natural complement to my gift as a painter, and only rejoiced 
inwardly at the extension of my artistic scope.
I did not suspect that things would turn out differently.
The question of my profession was to be decided more quickly than I had previously expected.
In my thirteenth year I suddenly lost my father. A stroke of apoplexy felled the old gentleman 
who was otherwise so hale, thus painlessly ending his earthly pilgrimage, plunging us all into 
the depths of grief His most ardent desire had been to help his son forge his career, thus 
preserving him from his own bitter experience. In this, to all appearances, he had not succeeded. 
But, though unwittingly, he had sown the seed for a future which at that time neither he nor I 
would have comprehended.
For the moment there was no outward change.
My mother, to be sure, felt obliged to continue my education in accordance with my father's 
wish; in other words, to have me study for the civil servant's career. I, for my part, was more 
than ever determined absolutely not to undertake this career. In proportion as my schooling 
departed from my ideal in subject matter and curriculum, I became more indifferent at heart. 
Then suddenly an illness came to my help and in a few weeks decided my future and the eternal 
domestic quarrel. As a result of my serious lung ailment, a physician advised my mother in most 
urgent terms never to send me into an office. My attendance at the Realschule had furthermore 
to be interrupted for at least a year. The goal for which I had so long silently yearned, for which 
I had always fought, had through this event suddenly become reality almost of its own accord.
Concerned over my illness, my mother finally consented to take me out of the Realschule and let- 
me attend the Academy.
These were the happiest days of my life and seemed to me almost a dream; and a mere dream it 
was to remain. Two years later, the death of my mother put a sudden end to all my highflown 
plans.
It was the conclusion of a long and painful illness which from the beginning left little hope of 
recovery. Yet it was a dreadful blow, particularly for me. I had honored my father, but my 
mother I had loved.
Poverty and hard reality now compelled me to take a quick decision. What little my father had 
left had been largely exhausted by my mother's grave illness; the orphan's pension to which I 
was entitled was not enough for me even to live on, and so I was faced with the problem of 
somehow making my own living.
In my hand a suitcase full of clothes and underwear; in my heart an indomitable will, I 
journeyed to Vienna. I, too, hoped to wrest from Fate what my father had accomplished fifty 
years before; I, too, wanted to become "something" -- but on no account a ci
Matthew 20:18-19 18 “We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death 19 and will hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. On the third day he will be raised to life!”
Luke 23: 46-47 46 Jesus called out with a loud voice, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.” When he had said this, he breathed his last. 47 The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, “Surely this was a righteous man.”
Mark 16:1-4 1When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus’ body. 2 Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb 3 and they asked each other, “Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?” 4 But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away.
Matthew 28:5-7 5 The angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 6 He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. 7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples: ‘He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him.’ Now I have told you.”
Romans 6:8-11 8 Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 9 For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again; death no longer has mastery over him. 10 The death he died, he died to sin once for all; but the life he lives, he lives to God. 11 In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Acts 3:15 15 You killed the author of life, but God raised him from the dead. We are witnesses of this.
Acts 4:33 33 With great power the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And God’s grace was so powerfully at work in them all
John 11:25 25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die;
Mark 15: 32 32 Let this Messiah, this king of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe.” Those crucified with him also heaped insults on him.
Romans 8:34 34 Who then is the one who condemns? No one. Christ Jesus who died—more than that, who was raised to life—is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
Romans 8:34 34 Who then is the one who condemns? No one. Christ Jesus who died—more than that, who was raised to life—is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
Ephesians 1:20 20 he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms,
Philippians 2:8 8 And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death— even death on a cross!
Colossians 1:13-14 13 For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves, 14 in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
Matthew 20:18-19 18 “We are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death 19 and will hand him over to the Gentiles to be mocked and flogged and crucified. On the third day he will be raised to life!”
Luke 23: 46-47 46 Jesus called out with a loud voice, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.” When he had said this, he breathed his last. 47 The centurion, seeing what had happened, praised God and said, “Surely this was a righteous man.”
Mark 16:1-4 1When the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices so that they might go to anoint Jesus’ body. 2 Very early on the first day of the week, just after sunrise, they were on their way to the tomb 3 and they asked each other, “Who will roll the stone away from the entrance of the tomb?” 4 But when they looked up, they saw that the stone, which was very large, had been rolled away.
Matthew 28:5-7 5 The angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 6 He is not here; he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. 7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples: ‘He has risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him.’ Now I have told you.”
Romans 6:8-11 8 Now if we died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him. 9 For we know that since Christ was raised from the dead, he cannot die again; death no longer has mastery over him. 10 The death he died, he died to sin once for all; but the life he lives, he lives to God. 11 In the same way, count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Acts 3:15 15 You killed the author of life, but God raised him from the dead. We are witnesses of this.
Acts 4:33 33 With great power the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And God’s grace was so powerfully at work in them all
John 11:25 25 Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die;
Mark 15: 32 32 Let this Messiah, this king of Israel, come down now from the cross, that we may see and believe.” Those crucified with him also heaped insults on him.
Romans 8:34 34 Who then is the one who condemns? No one. Christ Jesus who died—more than that, who was raised to life—is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
Romans 8:34 34 Who then is the one who condemns? No one. Christ Jesus who died—more than that, who was raised to life—is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us.
Ephesians 1:20 20 he exerted when he raised Christ from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms,
Philippians 2:8 8 And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death— even death on a cross!
Colossians 1:13-14 13 For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son he loves, 14 in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
